README.md, before:

## mirage-lambda -- an eDSL to ship computation to MirageOS applications

Mirage Lambda allows to describe functions using a monomorphic typed
lambda calculus with well-typed host primitives (for instance calls to
the MirageOS APIs). A client can use the eDSL to describe the function
to execute remotely. The Mirage Lambda API provides ways to parse,
print, type, untype and to evaluate these terms. These functions can
be used by both the client and the servers to ship code to be run on
remotely.

## Installation

Mirage Lambda can be installed with `opam`:

    opam install mirage-lambda

If you don't use `opam` consult the [`opam`](opam) file for build
instructions.


## Documentation

The documentation and API reference is automatically generated by from
the source interfaces. It can be consulted [online][doc] or via
`odig doc cmdliner`.

[doc]: https://mirage.github.io/mirage-lambda

## Example

The factorial can be defined as a `('a, int -> int) Lambda.Expr.t` value.
The `'a` is the of the environment, `int -> int` is the type of the expression:

```ocaml
open Lambda

let fact =
  let open Expr in
  let main =
    let_rec Type.("x", int ** int) Type.int (fun ~context ~return ~continue ->
        let acc = fst context in
        let n = snd context in
        (if_ (n = int 0)
           (return acc)
           (continue (pair (acc * n) (n - int 1))))
      ) in
  lambda ("x", Type.int) (main $ (pair (int 1) (var Var.o)))
```

To ship the code and waiting for a server response:

```ocaml
  let u  = Expr.untype fact in      (* Generate an AST *)
  let s  = Parsetree.to_string u in (* Pretty-print the AST *)
  send s >>= receive
```

The lambda server, on the other-side will receive the code, type it, and
evaluate it and send the response back:

```ocaml
  receive () >>= fun s ->
  let u = parse_exn s in (* Parse *)
  let e = typ_exn u in   (* Type *)
  let v = eval e in      (* Evaluate *)
  send (string_of_value v)
```

The server can also defines a list of host function primitives that it can
exposes to the clients:

```ocaml
  let primitives = [
    primitive "string_of_int" [Type.int] Type.string string_of_int
    primitive "string_of_float" [Type.float] Type.string string_of_int
  ] in
  ...
  (* Exposes the names [string_of_int] and [string_of_float] in the context. *)
  let v = parse_exn ~primitives s in
  ...
```

## Sponsors

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
[<img src="https://www.tweag.io/img/tweag-med.png" height="65">](http://tweag.io)

Commit message:

app: generate a static binary
Also add the instructions to run the docker image app.

README.md, after:

## mirage-lambda -- an eDSL to ship computation to MirageOS applications

Mirage Lambda allows to describe functions using a monomorphic typed
lambda calculus with well-typed host primitives (for instance calls to
the MirageOS APIs). A client can use the eDSL to describe the function
to execute remotely. The Mirage Lambda API provides ways to parse,
print, type, untype and to evaluate these terms. These functions can
be used by both the client and the servers to ship code to be run on
remotely.

## Installation

Mirage Lambda can be installed with `opam`:

    opam install mirage-lambda

If you don't use `opam` consult the [`opam`](opam) file for build
instructions.


## Documentation

The documentation and API reference is automatically generated by from
the source interfaces. It can be consulted [online][doc] or via
`odig doc cmdliner`.

[doc]: https://mirage.github.io/mirage-lambda

## Example

The factorial can be defined as a `('a, int -> int) Lambda.Expr.t` value.
The `'a` is the of the environment, `int -> int` is the type of the expression:

```ocaml
open Lambda

let fact =
  let open Expr in
  let main =
    let_rec Type.("x", int ** int) Type.int (fun ~context ~return ~continue ->
        let acc = fst context in
        let n = snd context in
        (if_ (n = int 0)
           (return acc)
           (continue (pair (acc * n) (n - int 1))))
      ) in
  lambda ("x", Type.int) (main $ (pair (int 1) (var Var.o)))
```

To ship the code and waiting for a server response:

```ocaml
  let u  = Expr.untype fact in      (* Generate an AST *)
  let s  = Parsetree.to_string u in (* Pretty-print the AST *)
  send s >>= receive
```

The lambda server, on the other-side will receive the code, type it, and
evaluate it and send the response back:

```ocaml
  receive () >>= fun s ->
  let u = parse_exn s in (* Parse *)
  let e = typ_exn u in   (* Type *)
  let v = eval e in      (* Evaluate *)
  send (string_of_value v)
```

The server can also defines a list of host function primitives that it can
exposes to the clients:

```ocaml
  let primitives = [
    primitive "string_of_int" [Type.int] Type.string string_of_int
    primitive "string_of_float" [Type.float] Type.string string_of_int
  ] in
  ...
  (* Exposes the names [string_of_int] and [string_of_float] in the context. *)
  let v = parse_exn ~primitives s in
  ...
```

## Docker Image

To run the mirage-lambda demo app:

```
$ make block # this create an empty ./disk.img
$ docker run -it -v `pwd`/disk.img:/disk.img -p 1234:1234 samoht/mirage-lambda
```

This app will listen on port `1234` for incoming connections and use
`./disk.img` as block-device storage backend.

## Sponsors

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
[<img src="https://www.tweag.io/img/tweag-med.png" height="65">](http://tweag.io)
